In the modern digital age, information technology plays an integral role in improving the efficiency 
of business processes, such as hiring and human resource management. The conventional hiring 
process, whereby applications are submitted manually through paper documents and in person, is 
characterized by inefficiencies and the potential for human errors. The larger the organization, the 
more applications it receives, making it harder to handle the hiring process manually. Many 
organizations are thus opting for digital solutions in order to gain efficiencies in human resource 
management (Laudon & Laudon, 2020). 

An Online Job Application System is a web-based system that helps job applicants look for 
jobs and apply online as well as check the status of their applications. At the same time, it allows 
the organization to advertise job offerings and check applications and manage applicant 
information using a centralized system. An Online Job Application System increases access to 
services for users as it enables them to access employment services any time and from any location 
where there is internet access. Mathis et al. (2017) explain that using online recruitment systems 
enables a reduction in costs and increases employment effectiveness. 

In addition, modern e-recruitment platforms enable easier communication between 
employers and candidates through the provision of status updates on applications, such as pending, 
selected, and rejected. The safety aspects of e-recruitment platforms, including user registration 
and log-in systems, protect personal information, while the search/job filtering capabilities help 
the candidate quickly search the most fitting opportunities. The employer has easier management 
of data, considering that the data provided by the applicants can be easily accessed. Empirical 
research has confirmed the use of technology in the recruitment process, thus improving the 
recruitment process speed (Stone et al., 2015). In Malaysia, the use of e-recruitment platforms has 
been found to be helpful in organizations in the management of a high volume of candidate 
applications (Tong & Sivanand, 2005). 

Overall, an Online Job Application System ensures the efficiency, accuracy, and 
accessibility required for modern recruitment approaches within the workplace. The system is 
important in modern human resource management in consideration of the growing need for the 
digitalization of the organization.
